\input texinfo
@setfilename manual
@settitle s21_SmartCalc_v1.0
@documentencoding UTF-8

@copying
Copyright © 2022 by Aannemar
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Short guide to using the calculator.
@vskip 
@insertcopying
@author Andrey Astafev (Aannemar)
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top S21_SmartCalc_v1.0
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* General information:: This section provides common information on the principle of operation of calculator.
* Arithmetic operations:: This section provides information about the list of implemented arithmetic operations
* Math function:: This section provides information about the list of implemented mathematical functions.
* Charts:: This section provides information about the possibility of plotting functions.
* Credit calculator:: This section provides information about the possibility of a credit calculator.
* Deposit calculator:: This section provides information about the possibility of a deposit calculator.
@end menu

@node General information
@chapter General information

The calculator is developed in the C/C++ programming language using the QT Creator version 6.2.
The main principle of calculations is implemented on the basis of Dijkstra's algorithm, the essence of which is to convert mathematical expressions from infix notation to reverse Polish notation.

@node  Arithmetic operations
@chapter  Arithmetic operations

The following arithmetic operations are implemented in the calculator:
@enumerate
@item
Addition - a + b
@item
Subtraction - a - b
@item
Multiplication - a * b
@item
Division - a / b
@item
Power - a ^ b
@item
Remainder of the division - a mod b
@item
Unary plus - +a
@item
Unary minus - -a
@item
To enter complex expressions use left and right brackets - (a)
@end enumerate
You can specify a complex mathematical expression using the constant X.
Enter the expression, click "=" and get the answer.

@node Math function
@chapter Math function

The following mathematical functions are implemented in the calculator:
@enumerate
@item
Computes cosine - cos(x)
@item
Computes sine - sin(x)
@item
Computes tangent - tan(x)
@item
Computes arc cosine - acos(x)
@item
Computes arc sine - asin(x)
@item
Computes arc tangent - atan(x)
@item
Computes square root - sqrt(x)
@item
Computes natural logarithm - ln(x)
@item
Computes common logarithm - log(x)
@end enumerate
Enter the expression, click "=" and get the answer.

@node Charts
@chapter Charts

The calculator implements the possibility of plotting functions.
In order to build a graph, it is necessary that the constant "X" is present in the expression.
Enter the expression, click the "Graph" button.
Next, a window will appear for entering the definition area, the value area determined automatically.
After entering the values, click "Ok" and a new window with a graph will appear.

The scope of definition and the scope of function values are limited to at least numbers from -1000000 to 1000000.

@node Credit calculator
@chapter Credit calculator

The calculator has a special mode of operation: Credit Calculator.

The credit calculator window contains the following fields:

- Loan amount - the desired loan amount. Supports only integer values.
- Loan term - set in months, supports only integer values.
- Interest rate - the desired interest rate. Set as an integer or a floating-point number.
- The type of monthly payments is radiobutton, the type of calculation of monthly payments.

Output Fields: 
- Monthly loan payment
- Overpayment on the loan (interest)
- The total amount to be paid.

@node Deposit calculator
@chapter Deposit calculator

The calculator has a special mode of operation: Deposit Calculator.

The deposit calculator window contains the following fields:

- Deposit amount - the initial deposit amount. Set as an integer.
- Placement period - for how long you plan to invest money. Set in months.
- The start date of the term.
- The interest rate is the percentage at which you invest money. Set as an integer or a floating-point number.
- Tax rate - the current key rate of the Central Bank is set. Set as an integer or a floating-point number.
- Frequency of payments - the frequency of interest accrual (selected from the drop-down list).
- Capitalization of interest - activate the checkbox if interest is credited to the account.
- Deposits - the frequency of replenishment of the account. Set as an integer.
- Partial withdrawals - the frequency of partial withdrawals of the account. Set as an integer.

Output fields:
- Accrued interest.
- The amount of tax.
- The amount of tax by the end of the deposit period.

@bye
